When I came into this class, if I honestly look back, I considered myself a bit of a digital historian. I always had a strong bent towards the digital in how I researched, and how I liked to look at information. The only real gap there is I think unlike apparently everyone else in the world, I like writing essays. I find that the research projects and writing about them really allows me to clarify my thoughts and arguments. In that sense then, I do not think this class really changed my perspective on digital history. I was aware of the things we did in the exercises, but I did not necessarily know how to do them. 

You talked in the final exit ticket section about the goals of the course, and how this was intended to be type of class. I found the goals side of the class challenging to adapt to, honestly. The side I liked the most was more general freedom to approach the topics that I wanted to approach, but I did not really take advantage of this for the first couple of weeks. It was challenging to try and swap my mental approach for the course, and I’m still not exactly sure I was doing what I was supposed to. 

I found the history of digital history that we did in the course to be quite interesting. For reasons I can still only speculate on, it really does feel like an isolated subfield, off on its own. My argument remains that every historian should be a digital historian. I think your points about how the biases of history as a field propagated into digital history is quite valuable, but I almost want to talk about it like you might talk about immigration: In the late 90s, digital history left the mother country and afterwards developed its own culture, but also retained a good number of features of late 90s and early 2000s, frozen in time. The interaction between the professional and the volunteer online, anonymity and credentials makes a very interesting backdrop. Maybe it was just the focus of the course, but I also did not see a lot of conversations about the really important, really public history project that is Wikipedia, or other similar online services. The course definitely got me thinking about digital history, data, and public history in new ways. 

Looking back on my notes and journals, I think I may have come off overly negatively. Despite delays, I had a high degree of success in the course, and almost every time I did have a problem, I could either fix it myself or a fix was posted on the discord. Discord pins (and channel search features) was a really excellent trouble shooting resource. I was already quite comfortable in discord before the course started, but if your goals were to allow students to help troubleshoot, it was really good at that. 

I think the single most interesting thing I found in the class was when working with the language tools. I’ve also been working with SPSS and excel for other classes, but near the end of the course, I just started pretty intuitively understanding how to work the new programs. I tend to like to do the ‘play first read later’ approach when it comes to new programs. While this caused some very dumb feeling errors at the start of the course, I found that I could basically do whatever I wanted with just about any program we worked with in the class at the end. Well, perhaps almost anything, I concede the exception of understanding how image embedding works. That remains an arcane science beyond mortal ken. 

Working with R and working with Audio I would point out as two things I really did not know how to do before this class. I feel significantly more comfortable in both now, and I think I would be able to teach myself most things I want to learn going forward. I also think I learned to think more critically about digital tools, presentation, and sourcing. 

Counter to the learning goals, I did not develop anything of a professional online presence, which is something I had little desire to do. There is a dual push and pull in the online space, with the academic world constantly pushing to develop a larger online presence, from twitter to linked-in, and every job I’ve ever worked not wanting me to have any at all. I really appreciated the real names policy, and honestly felt much more comfortable putting up my work and comments with a handle in place. 

You mentioned perhaps I should give myself a grade. Honestly, I find it hard to understand how to evaluate the work I did in terms of a grade. I do not think it was radically transformative to how I think or how I do history. I did not do the most possible work, but I did put time into learning the information put in front of me and was generally able to accomplish it with a high degree of success. I challenged myself with new material even when more familiar was offered. The projects I turned in were not the highest possible quality, and I was never quite sure what to write in my notes or reflections. However, I consistently tried to engage with the material, and I do not think I massively missed the point anywhere. 

I was also consistently able to work through things going wrong. When things totally did not work, I moved around it. I was able to find help with issues, and I think I generally had a good philosophy of dealing with tech failure. 

Based on that description, and how I accomplished what I set out to do, I would give myself a 92/100. I think, however, it would take several more classes of this style before I actually understood how to self-evaluate this.  

ADO, signing off.

